kb: update "Troubleshooting: RWX Volume Fails to Be Attached Caused by `Protocol not supported`" (#878)
longhorn/website: content/kb/troubleshooting-rwx-volume-fails-to-attached-caused-by-protocol-not-supported.md

Oct 11 07:42:23 dev-worker-1-autoscaled-small-19baf778f50efd8c k3s[1294]: Output: mount.nfs: Protocol not supported for 10.43.207.185:/pvc-13538170-4278-4467-b2b0-1f1ba6f54a4c on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/csi/driver.longhorn.io/185c34f566c2eca6e8c7c6a2ede2094c076d7d25ddae286dc633eeef80551af0/globalmount
```

The issue applies to RWX volumes on hosts running operating systems that use specific Linux kernel versions with known NFS-related bugs. Among the affected are OpenSUSE MicroOS (from 2023/10/08 to 2023/10/21) and other distributions using kernel version **6.5.6**.

## Reason

Longhorn RWX volumes depend on NFS when connecting multiple pods to a shared volume. However, commits to the Linux kernel can occasionally break NFS functionality. A regression in the NFS protocol is identified in this [kernel commit](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/51d674a5e4889f1c8e223ac131cf218e1631e423). Because of the regression, NFS clients are unable to connect to an NFS server inside a share manager pod, and then the attachment operation fails.

#### Solution

> The regression has been addressed in the [kernel commit](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/379e4adfddd6a2f95a4f2029b8ddcbacf92b21f9) within the vanilla kernel version **6.5.7**. Since the commit leading to the regression might be backported to older kernel versions in various distributions, to resolve the issue, it's advisable to inspect the source code of your Linux kernel to determine if the error stems from the [commit](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/51d674a5e4889f1c8e223ac131cf218e1631e423). For instance, Ubuntu users can check it within the [code repository](https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/). If confirmed, you can then proceed with either of the following actions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The regression was addressed in [this commit](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/379e4adfddd6a2f95a4f2029b8ddcbacf92b21f9) within the vanilla kernel version **6.5.7**. However, the commit that caused the regression might have been backported to older kernel versions in various distributions. It is therefore advisable to inspect the source code of your Linux kernel to determine if the issue stems from [this commit](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/51d674a5e4889f1c8e223ac131cf218e1631e423). Ubuntu users, for example, can check the [code repository](https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/).

If your Linux kernel is affected, you can perform either of the following actions:
```

#### Solution

The regression has been resolved in the [kernel commit](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/379e4adfddd6a2f95a4f2029b8ddcbacf92b21f9). To resolve the issue, you can examine the source code of your Linux kernel to determine if the error originates from the [commit](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/51d674a5e4889f1c8e223ac131cf218e1631e423). If confirmed, you can then proceed with either of the following actions:

- Upgrade the operating system to a version that uses a fixed kernel.
- Downgrade the operating system to a version that uses a kernel released before the regression occurred.

| Distro         | Broken Version |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| Vanilla kernel | 6.5.6          |
| Ubuntu         | [5.15.0-94](https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/jammy/log/?h=Ubuntu-5.15.0-94.104)      | 5.15.0-92         | 5.15.0-100      |

> | Ubuntu         | [6.5.0-21](https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/jammy/tag/?h=Ubuntu-hwe-6.5-6.5.0-21.21_22.04.1)       |                   |

Author: Removed and rephrase the paragraphs.

> | Ubuntu         | [6.5.0-21](https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/jammy/tag/?h=Ubuntu-hwe-6.5-6.5.0-21.21_22.04.1)       |                   |

Reviewer 2: Sorry for the misunderstanding. 

I meant we just keep the columns of distro and known versions without downgrade and upgrade versions.

> | Ubuntu         | [6.5.0-21](https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/jammy/tag/?h=Ubuntu-hwe-6.5-6.5.0-21.21_22.04.1)       |                   |

Author: addressed. thank you.

> | Ubuntu         | [6.5.0-21](https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel/ubuntu/+source/linux/+git/jammy/tag/?h=Ubuntu-hwe-6.5-6.5.0-21.21_22.04.1)       |                   |                 |

Reviewer 2: For `6.5.0-21`, there is neither a downgrade nor an upgrade version. Does that mean no way to work around it?

Author: Actually feel `downgrade version` is a bit weird....

Reviewer 2: I see, but why do we mention downgrade version for other distros here?

Author: I think the downgrade versions are from conversations with users.
How about removing the upgrade versions?

Reviewer 2: Probably keep the below good enough instead of specific versions?

>- Upgrade the operating system to a version that uses a fixed kernel.
- Downgrade the operating system to a version that uses a kernel released before the regression occurred.

Author: Agree with the idea.

Author: Updated. Thank you.
